Spokane Emergency Management 
Emergency Support Function (ESF) #2 
Communications, Information Systems & Warning 
 
 
 Emergency Coordination Center
Primary: 
• Jurisdiction Communication 
Departments 
Support: 
• Departments/Agencies, All. 
 Spokane Emergency Management 
Likely Tasks: 
• Maintain a 24-hour primary warning point for the 
receipt of warning information. 
• Develop and maintain a system to disseminate 
emergency alerts and warnings to the public. 
• Develop public education programs outlining the 
proper use of the warning systems and the 
meanings of the warnings issued through those 
systems. 
•  Disseminate emergency warning information 
from state and federal agencies. 
•  Disseminate warnings initiated at local 
government level. 
• Warning disseminate methods can include: 
Mobile public address (PA) systems; Mobile 
sirens; Outdoor Sirens; “Runners” e.g. door to 
door notifications; Use of media; Emergency 
Alert System (EAS); City/County communication 
systems; Telephone; Fax; Amateur Radio. 
 
 
LEAD AGENCIES: 
Communication Departments 
 
SUPPORT AGENCIES: 
National Weather Service 
Department of Emergency Management 
Law Enforcement Dispatch Centers 
ARES/RACES 
Wireless/Hard Line Communications 
County Information Systems 
City Information Management Services 
Local Media 
Combined Communication Center 
HEAR Radio 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
INTRODUCTION: 
A. Purpose: 
1. Communications:  To structure a communications system for the efficient flow of 
information during a major emergency or disaster. 
2. Warning:  To provide rapid alerting and warning to key officials and the public of an 
impending or occurring major emergency or disaster. 
 
B.  Scope: 
This ESF applies to the communication and warning assets of all county organizations 
including radio, voice, and data links, telephone and cellular systems, text, National 
Warning System, Emergency Alert System, and amateur radio. 
 
POLICIES: 
A. It is the policy of Spokane City/County Communications Departments to provide a 
hazard warning system, using both public and private resources, in coordination with 
state and federal agencies.    The extent of effort depends on the nature of the hazard, 
timeliness of the report to emergency management officials, the quality and quantity of 
information available, communications and warning resources available, media attention, 
and other situation dependent factors and all FCC regulations are adhered to. 
 
  
 
SITUATION: 
A. Emergency/Disaster Conditions and Hazards: 
See Hazard Identification and Analysis (HIVA) 
B. Planning Assumptions: 
1. The communications infrastructure may or may not be damaged during a disaster, but 
a diminished capacity is likely to exist. 
2. Established modes of communication will continue to be utilized to the degree they 
survive the disaster.   
3. Alternative means of communications may be required. 
4. Local government will request state assistance when necessary through emergency 
management communication systems. 
5. Emergency or disaster warnings may originate from any level of government. 
6. Most disaster forecasting resources are located within the federal government. 
7. Notification of a threatening situation may come through multiple sources. 
8. Spokane Cities/County (who) will focus on coordinating lifesaving activities and 
reestablishing communications and control in the disaster area. 
9. Initial reports of damage will provide an incomplete picture of the extent of damage 
to telecommunication facilities. 
10. Weather, damage to roads and bridges, and other factors will restrict the entry of 
emergency communications into the area. 
11. Tests of the EAS will be conducted periodically to familiarize the government and the 
public with the system. 
12. In the event that the public instructions need to be translated, the provision of 
interpreters will be coordinated through the ECC. 
13. Nighttime warnings will be difficult to impossible. 
14. Reliable communication capabilities are necessary at all levels of government for 
day-to-day communication, warning of impending disasters, disaster response and 
recovery operations, search and rescue operations, and coordination between the 
state, local governments and response agencies. 
15. Media responsibilities will be FCC compliant regarding information dissemination for 
the visual impaired, hard of hearing and DEAF and in accordance with the Inland Northwest 
Emergency Alert System Plan 
CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS: 
A. General 
1. Communications 
a. The Spokane County Sheriff Communication Center is located in the Combined 
Communications building in Spokane, Washington.  The center houses the countywide 9-1-
1 Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP).  The center includes dispatch services for various 
law enforcement agencies and fire departments throughout the county and serves as the 
initial communications, alert, and warning point for emergency operations.   
b. The Emergency Alert System (EAS) will be used to disseminate emergency 
information and instructions to the public using local radio, television, and cable 
stations. 
c. The Washington State Emergency Management Office operates the Washington 
State Warning Point 24 hours a day; Spokane City/County’s NAWAS receiving 
point is the sheriff’s office communication center, a 24-hour facility. 
d. The County Sheriff, Deputy Director of Emergency Management or a designee 
may activate the EAS.  (See INLAND NORTHWEST EMERGENCY ALERT 
SYSTEM PLAN for details.) 
 
   
2. Warning: 
a. When Spokane Cities/County Emergency Management officials are alerted to the 
threat or occurrence of an emergency/disaster situation, the Emergency 
Operations Center will be activated at the appropriate level and the situation 
monitored.   
b. Monitoring could be a prolonged activity or result in the immediate activation of 
the local warning system. 
c. Relevant information will be evaluated for use in public information advisories, 
and for advising and alerting response agencies and organizations of the situation. 
d. The EAS will be activated when the public must take some action to prepare or 
protect itself 
e. Warning could take the form of one or more of the following:  
1. Activation of the Emergency Alert System to disseminate life saving information;  
2. Activation of safety advisories;  
3. Fire district and law enforcement vehicles that could provide warnings along specific 
routes using public address systems and sirens;  
4. Activate a call response center in the ECC;  
5. Provide local warning information to regional television and radio stations, or other 
mechanisms, as appropriate. 
6. C.O.P.S./S.C.O.P.E Stations, Neighborhood Centers, Block Watch members, 
Community Emergency Response Teams and other volunteer organizations to canvas 
areas. 
f. Warnings will continue until the hazard had subsided or as necessary.  EAS 
warnings will be updated at least once an hour with a termination broadcast issued 
at the end of the event. 
 
 B. Organization: 
See Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan and ECC Guidelines. 
 
 C. Mitigation Activities: 
1. Test communication and warning systems. 
2. Develop interagency communications and procedures between fire, law enforcement, 
and other city/county agencies, to include the ECC. 
 
D. Preparedness Activities: 
1. Conduct weekly and monthly test of EAS. 
2. Train city and county personnel in the proper use of EAS and other communication 
systems. 
3. Continue to develop and improve EAS. 
 
E. Recovery Activities: 
1. Repair damaged communications or warning systems. 
 
RESPONSIBILITIES: 
A. Communications Departments: 
1. Develop and continually update procedures to ensure, the integrity of appropriate 
communications system hardware. 
2. Develop and continually update procedures to furnish disaster-related information 
with the ECC, when activated. 
3. Assist with the dissemination of information and warnings as requested by the ECC. 
4. In coordination with DEM, conduct tests and exercises of communication and 
warning systems. 
5. Install hardware and software, train employees and conduct periodic tests of the 
Emergency Alert System (EAS). 
 
B. Department of Emergency Management: 
1. Collect, record, analyze, display, and distribute information. 
2. Coordinate public information and warning. 
3. Coordinate governmental and emergency activities. 
4. Support first responders by aiding management and distribution of scarce resources 
and the restoration of services. 
5. Conduct appropriate liaison and coordination activities with all levels of government, 
public utilities, volunteer and civic organizations, private industry, and the public. 
6. Develop ECC procedures for activating the warning system, including appropriate 
notification lists.  Include consideration of special populations. 
7. Coordinate related public information through the ECC Public Information Officer 
and/or the Joint Information Center. 
 
 
C. Fire Agencies: 
1. In coordination with DEM, develop and maintain procedures to provide 
communications and warning support and services when requested from the ECC. 
2. In coordination with DEM, train personnel in proper warning methods. 
 
D. Law Enforcement Agencies: 
1. In coordination with DEM, develop and maintain procedures to provide 
communications and warning support and services when requested from the ECC. 
2. In coordination with DEM, train personnel in proper warning methods. 
3. When requested, as feasible and without jeopardizing their mission, make Search and 
Rescue units and volunteers available to the ECC to assist in the warning effort. 
 
E. Cities and Towns: 
1. In coordination with DEM, develop and maintain procedures to provide 
communications and warning support and services when requested from the ECC. 
2. Train personnel in proper warning methods. 
F. ARES/RACES 
1. Activated through Spokane City/County D.E.M. to compliment, augment, or 
temporarily replace existing communications systems. 
RESOURCES:  
See Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 
The communication capabilities presently available are: 
 9-1-1 Public Safety Answering Point (PSAP) 
 Commercial Telephone (wire line, cellular, and wireless telephone) 
 Two-way radio; School District radio system, Avista Corp., 
Ambulance, etc. 
 National Warning System (NAWAS); landline voice, intrastate 
landline voice, located in Spokane County Sheriff Dispatch Center 
and National Weather Service. 
 Emergency Alert System (EAS) 
 CEMNET state radio direction and control 
 Amateur Radio Emergency Service (ARES) and Radio Amateur 
Civil Emergency Service (RACES), 2-way voice and/or digital 
radio systems via the amateur service.  
 NOAA Weather Radio 
 OSCCR mobile-to-mobile VHF interoperability channel 
 RedNet channel 
 SAR channel 
 Combined Communications Bldg. (C.C.B.) 
 Spokane Police Department 
 Washington State Patrol Communications Center 
 HEAR Radio (Hospital Emergency Alert Radio) 
 Red Cross 
 Military Resources 
 Media 
REFERENCES 
A. Spokane City/County Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 
B. Washington State Comprehensive Emergency Management Plan 
C. Federal Communications Commission Rules and Regulations, Section 97-107, 
Emergency Operations 
D. Spokane County Field Operations Guide (ICS-FOG) 
E. ECC Guidelines 
F. ARES/RACES Plan (Spokane County) 
G. INLAND NORTHWEST EMERGENCY ALERT SYSTEM PLAN 
H. Multi-Casualty Plan (MCI) Communication Flow chart 
I. Special Request Resource List 
J. Washington State OSCCR interoperability plan 
 