Spokane Community Organizations Active in Disasters:  
Meeting Minutes 
 
COAD Vision Statement 
To create a community resilient from disasters. 
 
COAD Mission Statement 
Be prepared by bringing together community partners and individuals to foster greater community 
resiliency within Spokane County through: Cooperation, Coordination, Collaboration and 
Communications. Spokane COAD is a coordinating organization and will not assume direct operational 
responsibility in any disaster situation. 
 
1 
 
Meeting Date:  September 5, 2017    Meeting Location: FTC 
 
Call to Order:  0905 
Introductions: Cindy Thompson 
 
Presentations 
Greater Spokane Emergency Management Updates 
• Working to develop consistent messaging – will have templates for partner agencies to create 
their own information sheets 
• Disaster Assistance Response Team (DART) ramping up in Spokane 
• Family Safety & Preparedness Fair (Oct. 2018) 
o Looking for volunteers to support planning efforts in Logistics, Booth Recruitment, 
Marketing/Promotions, Workshops/Demos/Activities 
o To get involved or provide ideas for the event, contact Heather Kitchen 
 
COAD Business 
• COAD elections will be held during October meeting 
• All positions (Chair, Vice-Chair and Secretary) are up for election 
• Roles and responsibilities descriptions are attached 
 
Hot Topics 
Red Cross  
• Has sent support to Houston and initiating response to Florida 
• Shelter open in Cle Elum 
• Beginning campaign for smoke detector installation in September 
GSEM 
• Issued a donations management press release to encourage financial donations rather than 
items 
• Self-deployment continues to be an issue and they are working to educate on that 
• Staffing update – Patti Richards has left GSEM; open position for someone with emergency 
management background/experience 
Adventist Community Services 
• Working on getting mega warehouse to process donations 
 
2 
 
 
 
Updates 
ARES/RACES 
• Will have message handling, training 
• HamFest in Spokane on September 23 at University HS from 9-3 
• License class on October 7 
• For more information contact Jack Tiley 
 
Red Cross 
• Offering Disaster Spiritual Care class on September 30th from 12 – 5 (tentative) 
 
Spokane Fire 
• Partnering with Red Cross on October 7th for Sound the Alarm campaign 
• Targeting over 600 homes 
• Recruiting volunteers 
 
Humane Evacuation Animal Rescue Team (HEART) 
• Deployed to Texas 
 
211 
• Fully staffed  
• Reaching out to organizations to educate on their services 
 
COPS 
• In new central location at Knox Presbyterian 
 
LEPC 
• Reviewing commodity flow through study 
• Next meeting September 20 at 9 AM 
 
Civil Air Patrol 
• Meet every Monday at Felts Field for active Senior and cadet program 
 
 
MRC 
• Volunteers are training law enforcement officials on how to administer Narcan (Naloxone) to a 
person that has overdosed on opioids. Currently working with:  
o City of Spokane Police Department 
o Spokane County Sheriff’s Office 
o Liberty Lake Police Department 
• Gearing up to assist with several SRHD Immunization Clinics 
• After Hurricane Harvey, had nurses calling to volunteer and had them enroll as either MRC or 
Red Cross volunteers  
 
SRHD 
• Laboratory confirmation of West Nile virus in a mosquito sample from Spokane County. Five 
local horses were also confirmed to have the virus during August. 
3 
 
• Quality of Life Survey is being conducted in Spokane County, please complete the survey if you 
receive one 
• Reminder to check the Spokane Regional Clean Air Agency website for the latest air quality 
information during this wildfire season: https://www.spokanecleanair.org/ 
 
Business and Industry 
• Standing down the Alliance for Business Continuity and Disaster Preparedness (ABCDP) 
• Several individuals looking to form an Association of Continuity Professionals (ACP) Chapter for 
the Inland NW 
• Informational meeting planned for October 16 at the Fire Training Center 
 
 
Reminders: 
• Please visit the COAD website and complete the COAD Information Collection Form to identify 
your agencies resources!  
 
 
 
 
 
Next meeting: Tuesday, October 3rd, Fire Training Center, 9-11:30 a.m. 
~Promoting Community Resilience through Collaboration~




~Promoting Community Resilience through Collaboration~
Family Safety & Preparedness Fair
Planning Committees
We need your ideas and your help!
October 6, 2018
Family Safety & Preparedness Fair
Logistics
(Heather)
Booth Recruitment Marketing/Promotions Workshops/Demos/Activities
Family Safety & Preparedness Fair
• Logistics:
• Volunteer/Staff schedule
• Booth layout on map
• Handouts/printing
• Recruiting day of volunteers
• Approval of documents to 
be sent out
• Creating & placement of 
signs-parking, directional, 
etc…
• Booth Recruitment:
• Create application 
• Work w/ Marketing/Promotion 
to get promo flyer for mailing 
with application
• Create a list of 
agencies/organizations to 
reach out to
• Call agencies/organizations 
who have not returned 
application by X date
• Keep a list of those who have 
confirmed and any special 
needs they have asked for
• Includes getting food trucks
Family Safety & Preparedness Fair
• Marketing/Promotions:
• Create
• Promo flyer
• Social media promo 
posts (FB & Twitter)
• PSA type soundbites-
promotion & day of for 
live stream
• Acquire donations for 
raffles
• Workshops/Demos/Activities:
• Create a list of 
workshop/demo/activity 
ideas
• Create a schedule for the 
workshops and demos
• Create a presenter 
confirmation application
• Call potential 
presenters/demos if 
application not returned or 
more are needed
• Includes obtaining kids 
activities like face painting, 
bouncy house…
Family Safety & Preparedness Fair
Questions?
Family Safety & Preparedness Fair
Have ideas? 
Contact Heather!
Family Safety & Preparedness Fair
Sign ups are located at the 
back of the room!
Looking for at least 2-4 people per 
committee
- 1 - 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Region 9 Public Health and Emergency Preparedness Training  
  September 2017 
 
Table of Contents: 
Workshops ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - 2 - 
Webinars/On-Line Training ......................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - 3 - 
Exercises ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - 7 - 
Resources .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... - 8 - 
Conferences ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. - 9 - 
 
- 2 - 
 
PHEPR Region 9 Training Events September 2017 
Workshops 
Date/Time Location Title Information Registration Target Audience /Target 
Capability 
September 
6-7 
Camp Murray, 
WA 
Mass Fatalities 
Incident 
Response 
his course prepares state and local response personnel 
and other responsible agencies and professionals to 
handle mass fatalities effectively, work with the survivors 
in an emergency or disaster, incident management, 
planning before and operations during an incident, 
establishing the morgue, family assistance support 
operations, and assistance from the Federal government. 
Participants will learn to identify the characteristics of a 
mass fatality incident and identify the roles and 
responsibilities of key personnel in the incident. 
Details about new on-line registration 
can be found HERE 
 
Enter Course number 1071524 
The target audience for this course 
is local responders 
who may have responsibility for the 
recovery, handling, 
identification, and return of remains 
following a mass 
fatalities incident. 
September 
13 
Sequim, WA Mobilizing Faith-
Based 
Community 
Organizations in 
Preparing for 
Disasters 
This 8-hour, planning and management-level course trains faith-
based community organization (FBCO) representatives, 
management-level emergency managers, and first responders from 
small and rural communities to strategically mobilize and engage 
members of FBCOs, including religious charities, nonprofits such as 
the Salvation Army, the American Red Cross, churches (both 
affiliated and unaffiliated), temples, synagogues, mosques, and 
NGOs etc., in a reciprocal approach to disaster planning that is 
integrated into current local and statewide emergency management 
efforts. This course emphasizes grassroots mobilization and 
coordination efforts as a means of engaging all faith communities, 
thereby reaching those marginalized communities most vulnerable to 
disaster, most frequently excluded from the planning process, and 
ultimately, most difficult to aid in recovery 
Register Here  
September 
27-29 
Post Falls, ID ICS 300 This course provides training and resources for personnel 
who require advanced knowledge and application of the ICS. 
The course expands upon information covered in the ICS-100 and 
ICS-200 courses. 
To enroll for this course, log on to 
https://www.idahoprepares.com  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This course is intended for 
individuals and field (ICS) 
personnel who may be assigned 
supervisory roles during Type 1,2 
and 3 incidents 
- 3 - 
 
Date/Time Location Title Information Registration Target Audience /Target 
Capability 
September 
28-29 
Bremerton, WA Pediatric Disaster 
Response and 
Emergency 
Preparedness 
The 2010 report by the National Commission on 
Children and Disasters identified a training gap 
for emergency responders, first receivers, and 
emergency management personnel that reduced 
their effectiveness in responding to pediatric 
patients and their unique needs/considerations. 
This course addresses pediatric emergency 
planning and medical response considerations 
through a combination of lectures, small group 
exercises, and a table-top exercise 
Ruth Westergaard  [redacted: contact detail] 
 
[redacted: contact detail] 
Community and Hospital based 
Emergency Managers 
• EMS Personnel 
• Hospital Administration and 
Emergency Room 
Personnel 
• Public Safety / Public Health 
Personnel 
• School Administrators 
• MRC Personnel 
• Private sector 
• Law Enforcement 
• Disaster response/relief personnel 
• County, State, and Federal 
personnel who respond to a local 
jurisdiction disaster event 
October 4 
OR 
October 11 
Hayden, ID HCC Exercise 
Toolkit Workshop 
•Apply basic principles of exercise design and development to local 
exercise activities. 
•Identify the appropriate tools to develop, conduct and evaluate 
exercises. 
•Develop a Multi-Year Training and Exercise Plan (MYTEP). 
Request Eventbrite ticket HERE  
November 
2-3 
Hayden, ID ICS 400 This course provides training and resources for 
personnel who require advanced application of the ICS. 
This course expands upon information covered in ICS-100 through 
ICS-300 courses. 
To enroll for this course, log on to 
https://www.idahoprepares.com  
The target audience for this course 
is senior personnel 
who are expected to perform in a 
management capacity 
in an area command or multiagency 
coordination agency. 
Webinars/On-Line Training 
Date/Time Location Title Information Registration Target Audience /Target 
Capability 
September 
12 Webinar Arkansas Mumps  
Join NACCHO’s infectious disease and immunization programs on 
September 12 from 12:00-1:00pm ET for a webinar on the Arkansas 
Mumps Outbreak that began in August 2016, to hear about the 
circumstances of the outbreak, the social challenges involved, and 
the strategies for response. Presenters will include Dr. Dirk Haselow, 
State Epidemiologist and Medical Director for the Outbreak 
Response Branch; Stephanne Rudder, RN, BSN Assistant Patient 
Care Manager for the Northwest Region; and Catherine 
Bodenhamer, RN, Communicable Disease Nurse Specialist for the 
Northwest Region 
HERE  
- 4 - 
 
Date/Time Location Title Information Registration Target Audience /Target 
Capability 
September 
14 
Webinar Resources to 
Improve Health 
Care Coalition 
Preparedness 
ASPR’s Technical Resources, Assistance Center, and Information 
Exchange (TRACIE) is hosting a webinar on Thursday, September 
14 from 1:00-2:00 PM ET to highlight new tools and templates aimed 
at helping healthcare coalitions (HCCs) in their preparedness efforts. 
ASPR TRACIE is working closely with the National Healthcare 
Preparedness Programs (NHPP) in developing these tools and 
templates. This webinar will feature Melissa Harvey and Dr. John 
Hick discussing the development and potential uses of a set of tools 
to include: Health Care Coalition Preparedness Plan and HCC 
Response Plan Templates-Health Care Coalition Resource and Gap 
Analysis Tool- Health Care Coalition Pandemic Checklist- ASPR 
TRACIE Hospital Disaster Pharmacy Calculator 
Register Here 
 
Please note that this webinar will be 
limited to the first 1,000 registrants. 
The webinar will also be recorded and 
archived on the ASPR TRACIE 
website within 1 business day. 
 
 
 
 
 
Podcast 
 
 
 
 
On-demand 
 
 
 
 
Assessing 
Capabilities for 
Rapid Patient 
Surge for High-
Acuity Patients 
A large hospital evacuates patients due to an internal infrastructure 
failure in a disaster.  How does another hospital and the healthcare 
coalition manage this type of surge?  Advance planning knowledge 
for space planning and staffing, equipment and other resources to 
support this are crucial. 
https://soundcloud.com/user-
37591569/assessing-capabilities-for-
rapid-patient-surge-for-high-acuity-
patients 
 
On-
demand 
 
 
 
 
 
Webinar 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cultural 
Competency 
Curriculum 
Disaster 
Preparedness and 
Response 
This set of courses is designed to help you deliver culturally and 
linguistically competent services in disaster situations. Cultural and 
linguistic competency is the capacity for individuals and 
organizations to work and communicate effectively in cross-cultural 
situations. Cultural and linguistic competency can help improve the 
quality of the care you deliver to individuals from diverse cultural 
backgrounds. 
https://cccdpcr.thinkculturalhealth.hhs.
gov/default.asp  
 
 
 
 
This free e-learning program from 
the HHS Office of Minority Health is 
accredited for up to 9 continuing 
education credits, at no cost, for 
emergency medical personnel/first 
responders. 
On 
demand 
 
 
Webinar 
 
 
 
Preparedness & 
Emergency 
Response 
Learning Centers 
Search over 400 competency-based online trainings and other 
learning materials to find resources for building knowledge and skills 
in emergency preparedness and response. 
http://perlc.nwcphp.org/perlc-training-
search  
 
 
 
On 
demand 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Podcast 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assessing 
Capabilities for 
Rapid Patient 
Surge for High 
Acuity Patients 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As a featured guest speaker on ASHRM’s podcast series, RPA 
Principal Scott Aronson explored the subject of how a hospital or 
healthcare coalition can manage the surge of patients when a large 
hospital evacuates due to an internal infrastructure failure in a 
disaster. Advance planning knowledge for space planning and 
staffing, equipment and other resources to support this are crucial. 
 
 
 
 
 
https://soundcloud.com/user-
37591569/assessing-capabilities-for-
rapid-patient-surge-for-high-acuity-
patients 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 5 - 
 
Date/Time Location Title Information Registration Target Audience /Target 
Capability 
On-
demand 
On line 
45min 
Business 
Planning for 
Public Health 
Programs 
This 45-minute online course helps you understand the basics of 
business planning and determine if writing a business plan is 
appropriate for your public health program. Business Planning for 
Public Health Programs is the first in a two-part series on public 
health business plans. The second part is titled, Feasibility Planning 
for Public Health Business Plans. 
 
http://www.nwcphp.org/training/opport
unities/online-courses/business-
planning-for-public-health-programs  
Managers in local health 
departments 
On- 
demand 
On line 
1 hr 
 
 
 
 
 
Emergency 
Distribution of 
Pharmaceuticals 
During an emergency, public health workers may be called upon to 
help dispense medicine or medical supplies. Find out what is 
involved in the process of mass dispensing of medications, vaccines, 
or other medical supplies. This one-hour online course outlines 
situations in which mass dispensing is necessary, and discusses the 
logistics of providing medications to large populations. 
 
 
 
 
http://www.nwcphp.org/training/opport
unities/online-courses/emergency-
distribution-of-pharmaceuticals  
Public health workers and volunteer 
health care providers who wish to 
increase their knowledge of mass 
dispensing of pharmaceuticals. 
On-
demand 
 Online Training 
Series: Evidence-
Based Public 
Health 
NWCPHP's latest online training is a revised and updated nine-part 
series that covers all the skills you need to incorporate more 
evidence into your public health practice. From assessing your 
community to searching the scientific literature to analyzing cost-
effectiveness and prioritizing options, the Evidence-Based Public 
Health series demystifies complex processes and gives you tools to 
ensure that your work takes advantage of public health's best data 
and resources. Each of the nine modules can be taken alone, or they 
can be combined into a comprehensive training that gives you a 
systematic guide to strengthening the evidence base for your 
programs and interventions. 
http://www.nwcphp.org/training/opport
unities/online-courses/evidence-
based-public-health-training-series  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On-
demand 
Online web 
forum (archived) 
Digital Health 
Solutions to 
Advance Health 
and Well-Being 
for Vulnerable 
Populations 
This archived web forum with Public Health Institute and CITRIS 
researchers as they share focus group research findings from 
Louisville, Miami, and the South Bronx, and highlight opportunities to 
advance health and well-being through digital health solutions. 
Digital innovation offers the potential to realize new forms of 
interactive health services in the age of health reform and to 
contribute towards reductions in health disparities and improvements 
in health outcomes for vulnerable populations. However, strategies 
that effectively advance the impact of digital health solutions for the 
benefit of vulnerable populations remain limited. 
Web Forum was August 18.  
Archived video can be found here 
Organizations that work with 
vulnerable populations, develop 
digital health solutions, or are 
interested in learning more about 
this research are welcome to 
attend. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- 6 - 
 
Date/Time Location Title Information Registration Target Audience /Target 
Capability 
On-
demand 
Online course Course: IS-505 
Religious and 
Cultural Literacy 
and Competency 
in Disaster 
Based on the idea that religious and cultural communities are part of 
the Whole Community, the DHS Center for Faith based & 
Neighborhood Partnerships works to form partnerships between the 
Federal Government and faith-based and neighborhood 
organizations to more effectively serve Americans in need. As part of 
this effort, this course has been developed to provide emergency 
management professionals and faith and community leaders active 
in disaster with the literacy and competency tools needed to 
effectively engage religious and cultural groups both pre- and post-
disaster.    
This course is available on the FEMA 
website 
 
Prerequisites: None.  Continuing 
Education Units (CEU’s): EMI awards 
0.5 CEUs for completion of this 
course.   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This course is open to the public 
On-
demand 
Online videos Disaster Resilient 
Communities 
Group  
 
Disaster Training 
Video of the Day 
 
The videos found in this library cover disaster related mitigation, 
preparedness, response and recovery training.   
Videos include:  
Incident Command System in the 
Workplace 
Hospital Evacuation 
Nursing Homes - Hazards and 
Solutions 
 
On-
demand 
Online Foundations of 
Public Health 
Certificate 
This basic introductory certificate provides fundamental knowledge 
for public health workers with limited formal education or training in 
public health. These courses are offered via distance learning (self-
paced, online course format). The certificate is sponsored by the 
Empire State Public Health Training Center in partnership with the 
School of Public Health.  
Participants must register for the 
certificate and complete requirements. 
Instruction and materials are provided 
at no charge. Visit here or the NYS 
Department of Health Learning 
Management System and select 
Foundations of Public Health. 
 
 
Public health employees in local 
health departments and the NYS 
Department of Health are eligible to 
participate with permission from 
their supervisor.  
On-
demand 
 
Website FEMA distance 
based learning 
courses 
Emergency Management Institute (EMI) offers self-paced courses 
designed for people who have emergency management 
responsibilities and the general public. All are offered free-of-charge 
to those who qualify for enrollment. 
 
 
 
 
Find website here  
- 7 - 
 
Date/Time Location Title Information Registration Target Audience /Target 
Capability 
On-
demand 
Online Rural Domestic 
Preparedness 
Consortium 
Online courses from the RDPC are a perfect fit for those struggling 
to work training into their busy schedule. All online training is self-
paced and offered at no cost. Browse our catalog of online course 
below and enroll today. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Find courses here 
 
 
Exercises 
Date/Time Location Title Information Registration Target Audience /Target 
Capability 
TBD Providence St. 
Mary Medical 
Center 
Walla Walla, WA 
Ebola Exercise Exercising Tier I Ebola hospital emergency plans in a full-scale 
exercise involving community partners. 
By Invitation 
 
 
 
 
October 19 
 
 Great Washington 
Shakeout 
The time to get prepared is now! Join us again this year for another 
Great Washington Shakeout, on October 19, 2017. What will you do 
differently this year? At the minimum, participation in Shakeout is a 
1-minute Drop, Cover, and Hold On drill, but you can do so much 
more. More than 46,000 Washingtonians have already registered for 
this year - join us! 
 
 
 
 
Register Here  
Spring 
2019 
King County Full Scale Medical 
Countermeasures 
Exercise 
King, Pierce, Snohomish and Clark counties will be conducting a full-
scale exercise around medical countermeasures distribution. 
For more information please contact 
Cristin Corcoran 
[redacted: contact detail]  
 
 
 
 
 
2021 State Cascadia Rising 
2.0 
Not yet released 
 
  
- 8 - 
 
 
 
Resources 
Date/Time Location Title Information Registration Target Audience /Target Capability 
On-
demand On-Line 
Northwest Center for 
Public Health Practice 
Training Catalog 
NWCPHP is pleased to announce the release of a new 
online catalog with more than 400 emergency 
preparedness trainings and other learning materials. 
Public health professionals and their partners can use 
these resources to enhance the preparedness and 
response skills of individuals and teams. 
Here 
 
 
 
 
 
On-
demand 
NACCHO Website NACCHO 
Communicating the 
Impact of the PHEP 
Program – 
Communications 
Toolkit  
Despite public health preparedness advancements made 
using PHEP funding, as a result of recent budget cuts, 
many LHDs are losing resources they need to effectively 
respond to public health emergencies.  
 
To emphasize the importance of sustained PHEP funding 
and encourage state and local jurisdictions to talk to 
government leadership and other stakeholders about 
PHEP, ASTHO created the PHEP Communications 
Toolkit. Sample Discussion Questions: A set of 
discussion questions to foster and continue discussion 
around PHEP funding with policymakers. 
 
 
 
 
Full Toolkit can be found here This toolkit can be used by state, local 
and territorial preparedness directors and 
their staff to educate legislators about the 
importance of PHEP and establish 
community champions for PHEP.   
On-
demand 
Website The Nation’s Medical 
Countermeasure 
Stockpile: 
Opportunities to 
Improve the 
Efficiency, 
Effectiveness, and 
Sustainability of the 
CDC Strategic 
National Stockpile: 
Workshop Summary 
(2016) 
Large catastrophic events, or rare acute events, may 
cause situations in which a local jurisdiction’s medicines 
and medical supplies are not sufficient to provide care to 
the population it serves. In these cases of natural or 
engineered disasters, such as a terrorist attack, influenza 
pandemic, or earthquake, state or local authorities can 
request that the federal government provide assets from 
the Strategic National Stockpile to augment the state and 
local jurisdictions’ resources. 
 
 
 
 
 
Free online resource found here Public health employees 
- 9 - 
 
Date/Time Location Title Information Registration Target Audience /Target Capability 
On-
demand 
Website TRACIE 
 
ASPR has launched a Technical Resources, Assistance 
Center, and Information Exchange (TRACIE), a gateway 
developed to meet the needs of regional ASPR staff, 
healthcare coalitions, healthcare entities, healthcare 
providers, emergency managers, public health 
practitioners, and others working in disaster medicine, 
healthcare system preparedness, and public health 
emergency preparedness.  
 
Visit here to find instructions on how 
to access the password-protected 
TRACIE site. 
  
 
On-
demand 
 
Teaching tools and 
learning products 
Public Health 101 The Public Health 101 Series provides foundational 
teaching tools and learning products covering critical 
sciences essential to public health practice. The 
fundamental scientific components are wide and varied, 
spanning topics from the fields of epidemiology, health 
economics, data management, and laboratory science, to 
public health policy. 
 
http://www.cdc.gov/publichealth101/ •Public health professionals 
•Persons new to public health 
•Public health educators, instructors, or 
leads in specific fields 
•Those interested in pursuing  public 
health careers 
Resource Online Northwest Center for 
Public Health Practice  
 
 
 
 
 
 
Multiple training courses are available. Tool allows you to 
find training specific to your needs and topics searched. 
Newest trainings are listed in the “Webinars” section of 
this document.  
 
training finder tool Public Health  
 
Conferences 
 
Date/Time Location Title Information Registration Target Audience /Target Capability 
September 
12-14 
Eugene, OR Leave No Victim 
Behind 2017 
Conference”  
National Conference 
on Mass Violence 
Incidents 
The conference will focus on how law enforcement and 
victim services can effectively work together when 
responding to victims of a mass violence event. 
Conference panels and speakers will include subject 
matter experts who have responded to incidents in the 
past, resource providers, and others with expertise on 
this topic 
 
For more info: 
http://center.uocsdev.com/uosafety/20
17/  
 
 
Registration: 
[redacted: contact detail]
u  
law enforcement, victim service 
providers, first responders, community 
based organizations, campus officials, 
crisis response teams and emergency 
management professionals 
- 10 - 
 
September 
12 -14 
Virtual Summit Safety and 
Emergency 
Readiness Virtual 
Summit 
National experts will teach you how you can prepare your 
organization or community for the most devastating 
disasters, including:  
•Cyber Attacks       •Active Shooter/Active Threat 
•Violent Extremism •Complex Coordinated Attacks 
•Natural Disasters and more... 
Register: 
http://training.safeandready.org/p/virtu
al-summit  
 
September 
17-18 
Suquamish, WA 2017 WA State 
Emergency 
Management 
Association 
Conference 
More information to come http://www.wsema.com/ State, Local, Tribal Gov, Emergency 
Management. 
September 
18-20 
Sacramento, CA Preparing Hospitals 
for Disasters 
In a disaster, no one should have to go it alone. From 
planning to execution, working together with other 
hospitals, health care providers, community partners and 
government agencies can only strengthen a disaster 
response and ensure a smoother recovery. And with 
every new partnership formed, we become more resilient 
than ever. 
Here  
November 
4-8 
Atlanta, GA American Public 
Health Association 
APHA ‘s Annual Meeting & Expo is where public health 
professionals convene, learn, network and engage with 
peers. With the Annual Meeting, we strengthen the 
profession of public health, share the latest research and 
information, promote best practices and advocate for 
public health issues and policies grounded in research. 
Come experience APHA. This year's theme is "Creating 
the Healthiest Nation: Climate Changes Health 
Here  
November 
7-9 
Dallas, TX Annual Association of 
Healthcare 
Emergency 
Preparedness 
Professionals 
AHEPP Annual offers an opportunity for Administrators, 
Emergency Preparedness Coordinators, Directors of 
Public Health Preparedness, Emergency Managers, RN’s 
and individuals in the healthcare and public health 
preparedness field to share the latest research and best 
practices, network, and collaborate on ways to move 
preparedness forward. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Here 
 
Administrators, Emergency 
Preparedness Coordinators, Emergency 
Managers, RN’s, and all staff responsible 
for disaster preparedness at: 
•Inpatient acute care facilities 
•Outpatient clinical services 
•Residential/long term care facilities 
•Home care facilities 
•Public health departments 
•Preparedness coalitions  
•Academia 
•Large and small hospitals 
 
 
 
 
 
- 11 - 
 
Date/Time Location Title Information Registration Target Audience /Target Capability 
November 
10-15 
Long Beach, CA International 
Association of 
Emergency Managers 
More details and information can be found HERE HERE ◾Emergency management decision-
makers 
◾Homeland security officials 
◾Local, state, federal, NGO, tribal, 
military and private sector emergency 
managers 
◾Business continuity planners 
◾First responder coordinators 
◾Healthcare/hospital emergency 
managers 
◾Private sector industry risk managers 
◾Contingency planners 
◾University/college emergency 
managers 
◾Educators in the field of emergency 
management/homeland security 
◾Elected Officials involved in disaster 
planning 
November 
28-30 
San Diego, CA National Healthcare 
Coalition 
Preparedness 
Conference 
The NHCPC was created for healthcare coalitions, by 
healthcare coalitions. Join more than 1,000 professionals 
in the fields of healthcare, public health, emergency 
medical services, and emergency management to 
collaborate and exchange ideas for the common cause of 
making our communities safer, healthier, and more 
resilient. 
www.healthcarecoalitions.org  
July 10-13 
2018 
New Orleans, LA NACCHO Annual 
Meeting 
More Information to come   
 
 