Community Organizations Active in Disaster (COAD)
Tuesday, September 5, 2023.  0900-1100
Minutes
Attendees: Pete Hartmann, Taylor Dietz, Quinn Butler, all from 
WA EMD. Summer Rose, CHAS. George Abrams, MRC. Summer Warfield, Red
Cross. C.J. Gribble, Jeff Wilcox Team Rubicon. Jeanna Swanson, New Hope. Patty
Marsh, Adventist Community Services. Molly Sanchez, Innova Foundation. Chris
Jaklitsch, Veterans Affairs. Kelsey Solbery, Kristine Meyer, Avista. Travis
Alexander, Veterans Community Response. Kyle Richardson, SRHD/MRC. Mayor
Terri Cooper, City of Medical Lake. Fred Hutchnson, ARES/ACS.
 Group introductions and Report Out of what your organization has been 
doing for Fire response/recovery. 
 Adventist Community Services – Donation Management. Patty Marsh
 Team Rubicon – CJ G., Jeff Wilcox (logistics officer and volunteer district 1 Fire)
o Awaiting orders to support SAWYER work and heavy equipment for clean-up as needed
 Red Cross – Summer W.
o Peak about 130 red cross staff supporting disaster
o 2 shelters at peak
o SFCC closed 9/3
o Wildfire cleanup kits provided plus snacks, water, etc., submitted to national to request 
additional funds for survivors, ongoing casework – 306 total homes identified through 
DA
 Retired Airforce and ARC of Spokane – Jim
 Medical Reserve Corps – George
 Fire Commissioner – Sharon Colby, Fire District 3
 Dept. of VA Central Office in Spokane – Chris
o Supported DACs, provided mobile medical unit and conducted outreach
o Provided fliers, setup call center for veterans for support
 Veterans Community Response – Travis, Home (heavy equipment)
o Help with removing/replanting trees, cleanup, etc.
o Assessing at least 5 homes, beginning operations 9/6 and 9/7 in Gray Fire and assessing 
Oregon Fire soon
 Medical Reserve Corps, Spokane Regional Health District – Henry
o Supported with medical volunteers and have had volunteers support sorting center
o Some volunteers helping drive trailers to move donations around
o Support by request with medical and non-medical items
 Mayor of City Lake – Terry Cooper
o Meeting 9/6 at Medical Lake Highschool at 6:30 to discuss debris management, testing 
asbestos, where to dump things, etc. – invite from Mayor to attend.
 Amateur Radio Services – Fred
o Provided mobile network unit for ICP and DAC with communications support
 Innovia Foundation – Molly Sanchez
o Supporting fundraising for recovery work
 WA EMD – Pete H., Quinn B., Taylor D.
 UMCOR – Kathy Bryson
o Supporting DAC for 5 days, provided hygiene and clean-up kits
o Looking to how to support long-term recovery
 Disaster Leadership Team – Carlene Anders
o Providing mentorship to LTRG formation
o Attended and presented at 8/31 “buy-in” meeting
 Avista – Kristin Meyer, Kelsey (communications outreach)
o Supporting philanthropic side of things and coordinating with partners to bring 
resources
o Providing support to those with past due balances as a result of hardship’
 New Hope Resource Center – Spokane – Jeena Swanson
Overview of LTRG and Where we’ve Been…
 Important to setup LTRG as quickly as possible
 Spokane LTRG established with a county-wide name to be in place for future disasters if needed
 Gray Fire Committee and Oregon Road Fire Committee to be established due to community 
differences and needs
 “Buy-in” meeting held 8/31 with county commissioners and other leaders
 Need to identify board members and various committees needed based on disaster. Proposed 
committees include:
o A
o B
o C
 9/7 5:30 – 7:30 at Spokane Community College for official kick-off meeting of LTRG
 Carlene – These are all just templates and ideas of committees, but on Thursday we can revise 
and edit as needed
Discussion:
 ARC will continue case work with survivors
o Opened about 140 cases of the 306 identified in the ARC outreach
 FEMA VAL Assigned?
o Not yet, but will happen if FEMA IA approved. We can still reach out and ask questions 
as needed though even without declaration.
 State/County Initial Damage Assessments:
o Totals =
 Destroyed: 356
 Major: 5
 Minor: 8
 Affected: 58
 Unaffected: 59
 Inaccessible: 9
o Most destructive disaster since 2014
o FEMA/State Joint Preliminary Damage Assessment ongoing this week virtually to 
validate damages
o SBA, HUD, FEMA, DVA, USDA common federal agencies to support disaster recovery
o Handful of state agencies
o Disaster recovery starts and ends at the local level and takes a long, long time
 Carlene –
o PA unlikely in this disaster.
o Will need everyone at the table to pull resources together.
 Mayor –
o Limited infrastructure damage thankfully, so focus is supporting individuals based on 
needs
 Molly, Innovia –
o Managing expectations, needing to direct people to register with Red Cross, New Hope 
(OR Road Fire), Redemption Church, Veteran’s assistance – who else should we be 
referring people to for assistance?
 Quinn/Taylor can send Recovery Resources compiled by DSHS
 Spokane EM Website – Disaster Assistance Intake Form
 Call number for assistance
 ***Check with David on whether resources have been shared with 211
 Gerry - Debris Management Plan does exist at County
 Kristin – Avista, Have any resources been shared on debris cleanup and staying safe?
o Taylor – yes, during the community meeting last week in Riverside this was one of the 
focuses, included discussions on asbestos.
o Gerry – LNI has put some info out on how to cleanup safely. People should also work 
with their insurance companies.
o Mayor – Samaritan’s Purse has been helping out with debris clean-up in both locations 
and has assisted at least 70 homes thus far. Come in full PPE. Working closely with Karen
Scoog to share resources
o Team Rubicon – Trained in debris cleanup and can support.
 Veterans Community Response – Able to support tree clearing, limb them, then move to curb 
for cleanup. Out at a property Wednesday and Thursday.
o Avista – Plan was to cut them and leave behind, but due to extent, may revise this plan
o Innovia Grant may be able to pay for costs to chip
o Can the wood chips be shared with SNAP or others to be used for firewood heating?
 Team Rubicon – in Malden, we just left the chopped and chipped trees and 
people came and picked up the wood to use as firewood.
o Mayor – DNR says if tree has been burned, it’s not good for milling.
o Spokane Conservation District working in Elk to support land recovery as well and 
assessing tree survivability.
 Mayor: Can conservation district take this on?
o Carlene – Worked with DFW in Okanogan fire to take burned trees/wood for 
rehabitation
 Question on FEMA PA/IA thresholds
o PA state threshold - $13.6 million
o IA threshold – more nebulous, harder to get approved for the state
 email: [redacted: contact detail]
Thanks