 
 
Washington State Emergency Management Division 
Logistics Section  
Communications Annex 
(This document supersedes all preceding State RACES Plans) 
 
UNIT MISSION AND GOALS 
The mission of the Logistics Communications Unit (LCU) is to provide uninterrupted 
communication channels between AHJs, critical infrastructure and response partners 
supporting disaster-related operations with Washington State Emergency Management.  
The LCU coordinates and operates key elements of the statewide alternate, contingency and 
emergency communications infrastructure.   
The LCU operates a network of twelve DHS CISA SHARES Radio Messaging Service (RMS) 
stations 24 hours a day using Winlink®, a radio-based email service established for 
emergency communications purposes.  These stations are available to tribal, county and 
large city emergency management agencies, certain NGOs and designated critical 
infrastructure partners licensed with DHS CISA SHARES.  WA EMD’s SHARES RMS stations 
serve all of Washington State as well as our partners across FEMA Region X, the western 
United States, Alaska and Hawaii.  
The goals of the LCU are to provide: 
• Tactical voice communications, for coordination of personnel and resource 
movement(s) as needed. 
• Voice message traffic when passing message traffic via digital means is not available. 
• Data communications through Winlink® in the form of email and document 
attachments.  Examples include but are not limited to: situation reports (SITREPs), 
staffing schedules, requests for resources (ICS-213RR), general message traffic (ICS-231 
General Message), ICS forms/ documents and ISNAP reports.  Templates of these forms 
can be found in the Winlink program.  
• Redundant communications, giving WA EMD and AHJs both alternate and additional 
forms of communication when systems are overtaxed or impaired. 
 
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM REDUNDANCY PLAN 
In the immediate aftermath of a disaster, communications usage through primary providers 
(phone and Internet) spikes.  The sheer volume of traffic alone can degrade emergency 
communications capabilities.  Primary communications infrastructure may suffer damage in 
some disaster scenarios.  WA EMD Logistics established the PACE Communications Plan 
(described below).  The PACE plan provides (1) both alternate and additional communications 
resources, minimizing the impact and potential bottlenecks due to primary providers exceeding 
 
 
their maximum capacity, (2) communications not subject to single-point-of-failure challenges, 
and (3) communications services to areas that have experienced outages due to damage or 
other systemic failure that do not rely on primary communications infrastructure.  The PACE 
plan outlines both how and what resources are available.   
PACE is the acronym for Primary, Alternate, Contingency and Emergency Communications 
Channels: 
• Primary Communications Channels.  This includes commercial telephone services 
(tactical) and Internet providers (data).  In many if not most disaster events, primary 
communications channels are more than sufficient to handle need.  Please click here to 
download primary phone, Internet information and email addresses.  
 
• Alternate Communications Channels.   Implemented when primary voice and/or email 
is impacted/ interrupted, temporarily unavailable or overloaded and resources are 
needed.     
▪ Tactical (voice):  Satellite phone; CEMNET. 
▪ Data:  Winlink email.  Email address via Internet: NNA0WA@winlink.org.  Email 
address by Winlink radio:  NNA0WA.  Additional email addresses as per 
standing/ operational period ICS-205. 
 
• Contingency Communications Channels.  Implemented when primary and alternate 
communications channels are impacted or insufficient to handle the message load 
needed for mitigation and recovery. 
▪ Tactical:  As per standing/ operational period ICS 205. 
▪  Data:  Winlink email.  Email address via Internet: NNA0WA@winlink.org.  Email 
address by Winlink radio:  NNA0WA.  Additional email addresses as per 
standing/ operational period ICS 205. 
 
• Emergency Communications Channels.   Implemented when a disaster event has 
occurred and the scope may not be fully known.  Emergency communications provides 
resources specific to the disaster response. 
▪ Tactical:  As peer standing/ operational period ICS 205. 
▪ Data:  Winlink email.  Email address via Internet: NNA0WA@winlink.org.  Email 
address by Winlink radio:  NNA0WA.  Additional Winlink email addresses can be 
found on pre-event standing/ operational period ICS 205. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
LOGISTICS COMMUNICATIONS UNIT ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE 
 
Insert Org Chart Here 
 
The Logistics Communications Unit is organized under the Logistics Service Branch and is managed by 
the WA EMD Logistics Chief.  The LCU has communications assets and teams on-site at Camp Murray 
and at locations across Washington State.   
The LCU is coordinated by the Logistics Service Branch.  The LCU consists of four teams:  
- SEOC Radio Room Operations 
- WA EMD/ DHS CISA SHARES RMS Station Operations  
- HF Radio Net Operations on SHARES and 60 Meter Operations (Voice message traffic) 
- WA EMD 220 MHz Amateur Radio Network Operations (Voice message traffic) 
Specific information regarding transmit/ receive frequencies, function, and operational modes can be 
found on the preset standing/ operational ICS-205.  For the current preset standing ICS-205, contact 
[redacted: contact detail] 
 
COMMUNICATIONS UNIT CONCEPT OF OPERATIONS AND ACTIVATION PROCEDURE 
Mobilization, staffing and demobilization of the LCU follows ICS procedures established as per 
any given operational period of an incident.  
In the event the Logistics Communications Unit is activated, the Logistics Chief or his/her 
designee will be responsible to staff positions.  In the event of a disaster incident, the standing 
ICS-205 will be in force throughout the first operational period of the event, or until the new 
ICS-201/ ICS-205 is released and is in full effect. 
 
RADIO FREQUENCIES, OPERATIONAL PRACTICES 
Both digital and tactical operational frequencies/ assignments can be found on the ICS-205.  
Operational practices will follow plain language procedures as per National Incident Command 
System/ Incident Command System (NICS/ ICS). Guidelines.  Voice operations etiquette follow 
the National Coast Guard Radio Operations Guide. 
 
TRAINING OF COMMUNICATIONS TEAMS AND UNIT MEMBERS 
The LCU helps coordinate training tools and guidelines for individual communications specialists 
(RADOs or “Radio Operators) and AHJ radio units in all aspects established PACE plan.    
 
 
Training and training materials follow NIMS/ ICS procedures and protocols, using Homeland 
Security Exercise and Evaluation Program (HSEEP) guidelines.  These support protocols and 
procedures used in responses throughout Washington State, FEMA Region X, the western 
United States, Alaska and Hawaii and will allow for the development of exercises and 
interoperability support with our partners across FEMA Region X and neighboring states.   
Exercises and trainings focus on on-air protocols and procedures for the unit member and 
practical disaster radio unit exercises in which communications systems have suffered damage 
and radio units must practice reestablishing communications through alternate means.  
Individual unit members can be certified as WA State RADOs through the completion of Position 
Task Books (PTBs).  Communications unit training will follow Homeland Security Exercise and 
Evaluation Program (HSEEP) guidelines by certified trainers.  Training will be provided for both 
professional emergency management staff and volunteer staff specific to the roles each would 
fill.  Information regarding trainings and PTBs can be found in training guidelines and the 
training schedule.    
WA EMD has developed unit member training guidelines for the training of both professional 
and volunteer staff.  The training guidelines are based upon Federal Emergency Management 
Agency (FEMA) NIMS/ICS standards that are incremental in nature.  This creates an environment 
in which personnel are guided incrementally through a process that leads to increasing levels of 
proficiency and greater unit capability.  The intent of these trainings and certifications is 
standardize communications protocols and procedures as they pertain to responding large 
regional and catastrophic disaster events, but they will also serve as the standard for any 
communications practices that require contact with agencies outside of the local AHJ.  As these 
practices and protocols are standardized around the National Incident Command Structure 
(NICS), it will also allow radio units around Washington State to support our regional partners 
across FEMA Region X, the western United States, Alaska and Hawaii with communications 
assistance should the need arise.   
These guidelines are designed to address interagency operational practices and do not replace 
local trainings that support specific local needs and that are unique and specific to that agency.  
Local operations and training decisions regarding local operations remains entirely within the 
purview of the local AHJ.         
 
 
